Good morning, that is so nice to be here.
First of all, because before I forget it, thanks to the organizers, such an amazing event.
I guess I'm allowed to say that since we're on the last day of the conference
MCT Summit 2024: I love it.
I gotta confess that I do like the Netherlands.
Quite often here and somehow
I really love
that conference and you will see on a personal note
why that has a special meaning to me personally. We will talk about
some tools, we will also talk about hardware, we will talk about some - let
me say soft skills and I want to pack that all in half an hour, so let me let
me find out - let us find out with it if it works.
Before I forget that, there is a little poll out there.
I will publish the results later on.
There are QR codes, you might have seen that, they're all around the places.
I will leave it open just after the talk and then I will post it to our signal group and such things.
Most of you will already have seen that.
Before we really start I need to tell you a little bit that's quite personal
because actually it took almost five years to deliver this talk.
The first idea to talk about something like that was in 2019 when I was thinking
about what are the next challenges that we face,
the things that that you as an MCT will need to create your own version of the 2.0 version of an MCT.
What does that mean in terms of YouTube, live streaming, talking on conferences, stuff like that?
And what we planned, Denise and I, because I had the pleasure to work on that
with Denise McLaughlin, formerly known as Denise Humphreys, his lovely wife.
It is not exactly the same because it would be ludicrous four and a half years
later to talk about exactly the same things.
But it's very much comparable.
The sad story is that Denise couldn't make it here, but I got you covered.
Because what was so special? Why didn't we deliver that session in Vilnius?
Because that was what it should be.
The answer is pretty easy. Just a couple of days after the videos that you will see in a minute,
I was diagnosed with a life-threatening illness, and I had to go through some
very severe medical treatment that took a while.
And that was the reason why I missed Vilnius and I also missed Switzerland so
that's the reason why four and a half years later I couldn't wait to deliver something like this.
Back in those days and that's the reason why I want to show you because Denise
is not here, we wanted to focus on a couple of microphones stuff like that,
a little bit of hardware stuff and because Denise is such a funny person.
I can't resist to simply show you as a prologue this few minute video.
So enjoy, and then we will talk about the serious stuff.
Denise.
So here we are in Cologne. There are three important things to know about Cologne.
One: the Dom and here
we are at the back end fantastic we
have got the Hauptbahnhof over here so I can catch a train quickly to go home and
to my right there is a band playing some Latin music and it's amazing. And this
is number two: Kölsch. I don't like it. Sion Kölsch is better.
Guess what? This is number three: the Rhine and we're on the Rhine Boulevard.
Fantastic view behind.
So the reason back then was that we wanted to show a couple of different types
of microphones and how we can enhance audio and stuff like that.
I will talk about that a little bit later, but that is the reason why we created
that demo videos. Back in those days, you both lived in Cologne.
You moved. You are real Europeans.
So I'm glad that Rolf made it here in the audience. Especially you. Thank you.
And I'm pretty sure we will plan something for the upcoming.
MCT summit somewhere. So but now let's get serious.
Thanks for all the sponsors. Some of them are here in the room.
Thank you for making it possible.
But again, thanks to the organizers and thank you to all the MCTs that paid for that, right?
So this is not a free event. So we're all somehow sponsors. That is important to say.
My name is Thorsten Butz. And as I told you, I got some serious medical treatment.
And as I already told you, I'm a big fan of the Netherlands.
And I thought, I've got to combine that thing. If you want to get back to life,
you've got to do something.
So I decided to bike a little bit more than what I did before.
And this is, some of the Dutch people might recognize this, this is a very famous
tour here in the Netherlands, the Elfstedentocht.
And usually you do that skating, but some of you do that by bike. and this is me last year,
I did that a couple of times now, after 240 kilometers in a single day by the way.
So this is to (thank you) but this is nothing nothing better than show yourself
that you're still alive, right? So that's the best way to do that.
But let's talk about what you came for.
When do we talk about that. It's pretty simple because of that.
There's a great German word for that "Bandsalat". Everything that fails,
that can fail, will fail. That is my experience.
I'm an MCT for almost 25 years now. I started speaking in public more than a decade ago, 15 years.
I decided to do that a little bit more. Because if you talk, if we talk ..
For example, a while ago, Sami (Laiho) delivered a great talk about that.
And Sami, I remember well, said it is not about quantity, it is about quality.
So it really doesn't matter if you speak in front of 1,000 people,
they will not show up as customers.
But it might be on a special event that you simply have 20 or 30 people in the
audience, but they will return to you as customers.
So that is what I think about speaking in public. Doesn't mean that you have
one thousand people in the audience it can be a tiny group but that can be very important for,
And you can also be the famous YouTuber that maybe Andy is becoming.
And that is your way you can do it.
The problem is when you speak on big conferences, you might know that I'm now
for quite a couple of years, I'm
responsible for audio and video at the PowerShell conference in Europe.
I became in charge by accident. That is not what I was looking for.
The reason was: I was from day one, I was a speaker.
This was one of my favorite events. And what I found out is that you never get
100%. You can do whatever you want. Someone will screw it up.
Maybe the audio is missing. Maybe the screen recording is missing. Something will fail.
And I thought, I have a right for my 15 minutes of fame.
So I want to take care, and I would encourage all of you to do exactly the same.
Record yourself and treat this as a backup.
Don't mind if everything works great, but if you have a backup,
you do not rely on the AV team.
And the good thing is the AV team will love you.
For example, some of you, I met a couple of you that will speak in the next
upcoming PowerShell conference in Antwerp.
If you do a backup and we miss something, maybe the audio is broken,
and you come to me and tell me, hey, I got my own personal recording, I will love you.
So that is my primary purpose why I started to create backups while I'm talking.
And you will see, I did it with Ralph, you will see how that works.
Because everything, everyone I said, has his right for, his or her right for
his 15 minutes of fame, as Andy Warhol said it.
And for those who are not familiar with PowerShell, This is Jeffrey Snover,
the inventor of PowerShell.
I had the joy that he came to a couple of my talks, but this was the first one.
And the topic was, yeah, you read it, right?
So this, I think this is my 15 minutes of fame. So I wanted to have it,
it's on YouTube. It's not the best quality.
I could do that better today, but it worked.
Let's start with some general advice very quickly.
This is from a colleague of ours. He's running a MacBook.
And what you see up there is that he got a splitter because MacBooks are very
famous, and the same is true for Surface notebooks.
They are very, very famous that they screw up recording.
This is because of, read the Wikipedia article, this is because of HDCP.
It is meant to take care that you're not able to record yourself in terms of
audio and video duplication.
They don't want that the latest Hollywood blockbuster shows up on YouTube one
day before it's broadcasted generally.
The cheaper the device the better.
If you buy that from that China Express store, you name it, for just two euros it will work because.
HDCP as far as I know requires some license
fee and they have to take care
about a couple of things and some of the cheap manufacturers they don't care
about and that means that they simply tell the notebook we got you covered, everything
is fine everything is licensed give me the content so that will work and this
colleague that I also recorded you will see him in a minute,
he had it with him and I would encourage you to try that on your own if you
have a MacBook if you have a Surface Book try recording yourself and if it works
great but buy this kind of device.
It's just a few euros.
Yeah, you name it. So generally, read about HDCP. So why do I tell? Because...
It's more or less, it's a returning joke. Every year that we're recording something,
a couple of more people have macOS, a couple of more people have a new notebook,
and then all of a sudden we can't record that.
So in many cases, the audio-video team got you covered, but it's always a good
idea to have one with you. That's the first point.
Second thing, always use FullHD.
That's another thing that I see so often. People buy notebooks with such ridiculous
screen resolution, which is nice when you work on it.
But this is not what you want to deliver to YouTube.
Forget about 4K these days. You can start with that maybe in a couple of years,
but today you will see FullHD is simply the sweet spot.
It's the gold standard. It will work everywhere. and I would encourage anyone
to lower the resolution, try that, mirror the screen and deliver your content as FullHD.
And this is what the AV team expects.
So if you're doing home production then you might focus on higher resolutions.
But that is not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about life situation.
I'm delivering FullHD here.
There are some more tips and tricks that are so - I think everybody should already know that -
but what I found out is people forget about that.
So, for example, put your phone in do not disturb mode and do not use the presenter
mode because that always leads into trouble when mirroring screens.
If you know what you're doing, you can do any of that.
And a private tip from me, you might find out that it's a bit strange: w
hy should we hide the clock?
Sometimes you screw it up, sometimes it fails and you need to cut it later on
because nobody wants to see how you repair the cable or do something.
And then it's a bit annoying if the clock is moving from 1 o'clock to 3 o'clock or something like that.
So it's way easier to cut your video if you simply disable the clock in the tray bar.
That's a tiny trick, but it makes a big difference, I can tell you.
So probably turn off messenger and those type of things exactly if you enable
the presentation setting in Windows, then it should be covered, but anyhow.
Exactly. Sometimes it doesn't matter if you will have a look at that video if
if the recording will show up. So it's very likely that in two years'
time it is still the same that I would tell you because it doesn't change that
often in terms of microphone technology or audio interfaces or stuff like that.
Anyhow, the final thing that I don't see very often, I do it all the time,
maybe you saw it before we started, start with a jingle or start with a countdown.
But believe it or not, I very often have to cut sessions from speakers.
I don't name people here. Very, very prominent celebrities.
Very, very prominent. And you don't get the point in time where they start talking.
Because they're constantly chatting with someone.
And all of a sudden you think: Okay, this is already the talk.
Don't do that. In the beginning, shut up and do this.
And now you start. And now that is the distinct point where you say,
okay, that is the beginning of my presentation.
Chicken, chicken, chicken, chicken. That's it. Very easy.
If you want to record yourself, it's obvious that it's easy somehow,
and it's very hard in some other aspects.
What I want to show you is that you only need to cover two things.
And if you're looking for a little bit more, then you have to cover three things.
Let's find out what that is.
What you really need is screen recording. And it really doesn't hurt anyone
if you do a screen recording as a backup.
As I mentioned before, if the audio video team on a conference has got some
trouble with the connection, stuff like that, it's just so easy to record your screen.
What you already should take care of is audio.
This is the reason why you see that I wear a microphone, because that is very important.
The one thing that I think is not so really important important is the thumbnail
size of your head, that headshot.
Because if you think about, if you have a look at the PowerShell training or
something like that on a conference, just that I mentioned. How important is
that you see the speaker?
It's nice to have because it gives you some of the atmosphere at the conference.
It's very nice to have, but actually you don't need it.
Sometimes I think it's a little bit disgusting if I see a huge amount of code
and some of it overlaps with a picture of the speaker.
So if I cut it on my own then I always remove the camera.
So I want you, if you start recording with it, don't think too much about video.
Simply think about screen recording plus audio and that is already a great backup
for anything that you do.
Screen recording is not a big thing.
And I have to say, first of all, that I'm not sponsored by any of the companies
that I will name now, and I will name a lot, and I will give recommendation.
I'm open to sponsoring, if you listen.
Camtasia, RØDE, and stuff like that. But this is just my personal experience.
So Camtasia, to me, is number one, simply because we're at the MCT Summit.
And I know that almost any one of you already have a Camtasia license.
So if you have one: start it, it's fine. It's great. And you can also cut it.
It's available for macOS. It's available for Windows. Great tool.
The easiest thing, maybe you have not yet seen it, is: ZoomIt
In the latest versions, it was, I think, Mark Russinovich published it last year.
It can also do screen recording. and I definitely I'm sure any one of you have
these Sysinternals tools on your notebook.
It is CTRL+F5 - that's it, let it run, it's fine.
And if you really want to go serious then it must be OBS because OBS is the prime tool.
It is not very hard to understand but it needs some time to try out.
So the nice thing thing about OBS is, I use it here,
the nice thing about OBS is that it is available for any platform that we use.
It's available for Linux, for Windows, and for macOS, so it's always the same.
And if you want to go into live streaming, that's where it comes from,
but it can do everything.
I use it in any Teams recording because it's got virtual cameras and so many
useful things. Do it, try it, that is the easiest part.
The one thing that you're usually missing, why we wanted to talk about that
topic is, the one thing that people do not know is that they need an audio interface.
Some of you might think, I got that little jack here, I can plug it in in my
notebook and that's it. That will not work.
Because computers are not very good in processing audio signals because they
expect you to have such a device.
And if you look closely, you will see there are three audio interfaces.
I have not took a picture of my biggest audio interface that is of this size,
if you do music and stuff like that.
But the biggest one is a general general purpose audio device, a good one.
The smallest one, the white one, you already know because that is nothing else
than the Apple adapter, that some of you might know.
And the one in the middle, that is the most interesting one on the right hand
side, that is the RØDE micro AI.
This is what I will recommend later on.
The interesting thing about that Apple adapter is that some of you might think
that this is simply a passive thing, just a cable. It is not.
It got tons of electronic circuit in it. It's a miracle.
And the fun thing is that this might be the cheapest, in terms of value,
the cheapest thing that Apple ever created, because it only cost 10 euros.
And if you think about it, if you read about it, what's all in it
hen compared to some cables that they sell for 30 euros: This must be way more
expensive, but we don't tell them.
So one day they started to, when they moved to Lightning and to Lightning only,
so when they removed the jack, they started to offer that in a cheap way,
and they still offer it for 10 euros, and you get it on the used market for even less.
And this will also work with most Android phones.
And I got a lot of things with me. If you have an Android phone,
I would really love to talk to you and give a couple of things so that you can
tell me this works with my device, this works with that device.
I tested it with a Galaxy, for example. Many will have that.
That works fine. And that is the cheapest one. You can buy much more expensive
stuff than this that will not work that well.
I will come to that later. The fun thing is that Andy, for example,
asked me exactly about that.
What you really need to know in terms of technical is that the jack /
the pin might always look the same. We're talking about 3.5 millimeter jacks.
But it is not the same. It's a large number of standards.
And I don't go into much detail here. We will not have the time.
But what you really should be aware of, count the rings and you will see these
both pins are different.
The upper one is a so-called TRS jack, a TRS pin and the lower one is a TRRS.
Why is that different?
The management summary is the lower one supports microphone plus headphones.
That's the reason why most most smartphones will expect you to have something with TRRS.
So that leads to the situation,
if you buy a very expensive lapel mic, I'll come to that later,
and you put it in here and attach it to your smartphone, it will not work.
Because the expensive ones, they are not meant to be directly used with headphones.
They think that you have some proper musician gear or some broadcasting gear.
So very often the expensive one use the TRS standard, the upper one,
and the cheaper one, those that I gave to you, they use TRRS.
You can move from one to the other, but then you're in the dongle hell.
And you will see that very often when you find me on conferences.
I always run with a bunch of these cables here because this is TRS to TRRS and vice versa.
And you need them. So I have a couple of them with me.
And you will later find - I will put everything with affiliate links -
with links to the standards and stuff in the slide deck.
And I will publish it. So you might take pictures, but there is no necessity.
I will give you the links and some tips and tricks. Take your time. It doesn't matter.
That is the one thing that you have to be aware and, a
s most of you already know, I donated this. This is for free.
You can keep it. I gave it to some of you if you don't have one take one use it.
This one has TRRS. So this is what is expected here on a smartphone.
This is a very cheap lapel mic and we will see what comes out in a couple of minutes.
This is what it looks like. You have a smartphone and since I'm an Apple user,
Apple makes it easy for me because it's always the same.
I don't mind that you use Android but there might be a difference if you use
a Galaxy phone from Samsung or you use a Huawei or Xiaomi or whatsoever. So try that out.
The question is, if you got everything wired, how do you record yourself?
If I go back one more time, on the left hand side you see there is a recording application.
You can use anything. You can use a voice recorder, you can use anything that you
find but i highly recommend for apple users,
sadly that is not on the Google store it is
on the store yes but it's only for outdated android
versions so for the latest and greatest you will not find it. But for ios users
i highly recommend this app you see here it's aphonic we will talk about that
and you can simply use it to record And the main reason why I recommend it is
you can choose the microphone.
Because in my current setup, I have four microphones, if I got it right,
that are connected to my smartphone.
Because I have a couple of them built in, and I attach another one,
so I can choose from three or four or whatsoever.
And this doesn't work properly automatically. You should really check that.
And Auphonic allows you to check that.
That is also true for some other tools, but this is the one that I use.
What is Auphonic? Auphonic is a dream come true.
You will see that in the little demo that I prepared.
Auphonic is, and now comes the best, it's a free service from our friends in Austria.
It is somehow related to a university over there.
They're doing research on audio signals and they are, These guys are world-class
experts on audio processing. It is the highest level.
And they do offer a broadcasting service, let me say it like that,
where you can put in your totally rubbish audio signal.
You can also put in videos. You will see in a couple of minutes.
And then they try to improve it. they also
these days they create a transcript and
if you want to you get automated subtitles it
is great you will see that I always
use that because it makes it so easy to publish something for example to YouTube
on conferences I very often tell that we have one more time I take this as an
example because I I know a lot about it. I take the PowerShell conference.
We have almost 100 sessions, 80-something.
And if everything works great, I can publish all of them in three days. And how can that be?
I delivered a couple of talks. You will find them on YouTube.
But the management summary is: I couldn't do without Auphonic.
Because I put everything in a cloud storage.
I automatically let improve it here. and they will publish it on behalf of me to YouTube.
So that's it. And then you can say that it's automatically visible or not.
I always say upload it, but don't make it visible, and then I check it again,
and then I put it to public.
I show you a demo in a few seconds.
What should you buy if you're interested? In that, what I will demo with the
help of Ralph in a couple of seconds.
And what you should not buy. And again, I'm not paid for that.
So that is really my experience.
Do not buy any of the cheap or not so cheap adapters.
I bought them to try them out, but usually they are made for supporting headphones and only headphones.
Most of them do not support microphones.
They are not meant for that.
So if you buy anything, simply try if it works or not, I would recommend that
you buy something different.
If you only want to spend 10 euros then take
the microphone that I gave to you which is
by the way less than less than
two euros. This microphone costs on the
China market just one euro something and then
the rest is parcel service and how
good it is you will hear that. Buy this
one. And Apple is rich enough it's not
that I want them to be even richer it is just because I made
the best experience with that. That is why I recommend that but since you are
all rich I want you to think about and this is exactly what you asked me, Andy. A
nd I want you to think about trying the,
I put the notes and they I put the
link in the notes try the RØDE AI micro. You see it on the left hand
side this is this one over there it is as big as a stamp and it's a miracle
because there are a couple of things that are really great in it.
First of all it supports two microphones and it handles as different channels
so I can for my podcast for example I can create a two-person interview and
I have separated channels.
That is first of all super great. The next thing is you have headphones support
on top and the the very, very best thing is, do you see the microphone?
Some, one of it, the red one is TRRS and the other one is TRS.
You can put both of it into, it will recognize automatically. That is pure magic.
You know, I always say content first, recording second!
If you're on a big stage, don't screw it up because of the recording.
Deliver your session. It is better that you deliver a good session than you
have a good recording of a bad session.
So you don't want to fiddle around.
So take the simplest way that can be. And if you buy this one,
again, not an advertisement, but I got very, very good experience with that.
That's my recommendation.
If you want to buy another lapel mic, you can spend money on it, infinite money on it.
But the one thing that I started with is this one.
This is, again, a RØDE product. I got to confess that I'm a bit addicted to
that company because they're in that sweet spot.
They're not too expensive. Because real pro gear can be super expensive if you
think about the news on television It's disgusting what they pay for microphones.
We don't want to go into that area. It can be a couple of thousand euros for a microphone.
That's not a problem at all so this one is only 60 euros this is the RØDE smart
lav+ and this also has TRRS you see.
hat means it is meant to be connected
to a smartphone but even better
if you say that doesn't convince me because what do
i do with my smartphone while it's
connected  i want to move around right and
if I have it here on the desk I can't do it. This is the reason why I also gave
you that little stand because that might be okay if you don't want to go around
but if you want to move around then you need something like that. Fhat is where
Ralph comes into this session and you might see here,
there is a there is a wireless transmitter and this is the one that I used.
The audience in the room will see what I point
to you don't see it on the recording.
This is a wireless transmitter and this is what I use and this is what we did
while I recorded the session that you will see in a minute and I also recorded
the session a couple of other colleagues for example Andy's.
I will show you two colleagues that texted me me first.
The first one was Ralph and the second one you will also see.
So I take them as a demo to show you what we've done here.
So before I go back to the wireless transmitter, let's have a,
Let's see what we've done there. I show you one thing first. I got a one minute clip.
Hope time is enough. Yeah, we're fine in time. And the first thing that you
will see is that I recorded Ralph with a high value, very pricey lapel mic.
Also from RØDE , the Lavalier II. This is the best
that I have and this is what came out when I don't touch it when I do not improve
it this is just the untouched audio recording so wait.
First one. You see it's quite noisy and you have to keep something in mind.
The main stage below is a little bit awkward in terms of recording because you
have that feedback loop from the PA.
The whole room is completely noisy, so that's not a lot of fun in terms of recording.
I will show you another example from this room where we are now.
It's way easier to record. But let me show you,
This is the microphone which only costs less than 2 euros and mind the difference.
Not that big of a difference, right? It's not 100 times better or less good. But I got one more thing.
I always recommend that you also record the microphone of your notebook.
Most of you will have one.
And the quality will be very bad. But later on, when you cut the video,
you will have to find out you got an external source, an audio file and you
have to combine it eventually with a screen recording.
And how do you find out what is the proper position to align these both?
So I always recommend that you also include the notebook microphone so that
it's easier to cut it and when you align it then you silence the notebook.
And just for comparison, and keep your ears shut, what does that sound like?
What you hear is the PA.
Because without the PA you wouldn't hear him not
like that because he moved away from from the notebook
and it would be even worse so and now we show you something you put that file
into Auphonic and I have it here let's see this you go to productions I already
uploaded it I want to just want to show you one little thing. I hope it works here.
Ah, maybe I'm not super online.
What's up?
roductions.
This is a live situation, right? I should have taken a screenshot but anyhow it doesn't matter.
Okay, I can tell you what you would see here.
You simply push it up. Now it's here.
You simply push it up to a
cloud storage or you can also directly upload it
and then you can do
a lot of things and you see you
can put the title of the track into it so that it automatically gets
the right YouTube title stuff like that but the real magic is
this here underneath and this
is these audio algorithms that you see here below there
are pure magic and within the last year
they added augmented they added
artificial intelligence to it and if
you think about the documentary that you might have seen about the
Beatles the reason why we see that
is just audio processing next level that is because artificial intelligence
was used to to to recognize the noise and remove it without lowering the frequencies of the voice.
And it's just amazing. If you think about it, the Beatles, that was 69, 70. It's amazing.
And you can use that here.
And what you can also use is what I automatically added, and you will see the result here.
Auphonic integrates the Whisper system. Whisper is something that you might have heard of.
It is from OpenAI, the ChatGPT guys, and it delivers automatic subtitles.
It can do a bunch of things. If you look at my YouTube videos you will find
out there are summaries.
They are created by the Whisper because think about it, three days for almost
100 talks, each of them an hour, how can that be?
I would need an army of people to process that video.
That is done by Whisper. And now I show you what's coming up here.
And take your seat.
This is the the resulting file i have not yet uploaded it because it's ralph's content,
but take care.
Unbelievable, isn't it? There's no noise in it and that was the expensive microphone.
The real magic, now we listen to the one euro something microphone.
Unbelievable, right? Have you heard any?
I checked it, I guess, I checked it four times because I thought I had confused
the files. I have not. Exported it multiple times.
It's unbelievable, right? So what you find out is that I very often see that
people invest in very, very expensive microphones.
But what you see here is the audio interface is the first thing that you should buy.
That is my personal recommendation. I got one more thing.
Do you remember the notebook sound?
It is not as good. That's for granted. But if you don't have anything else,
and that was your 15 minutes of fame.
I stop it here. It's amazing. That is Auphonic. So I give a big hand to Auphonic.
It's great. And it's for free.
It is for free. Thank you, Austria. You can use it two hours a month for free.
So if you're someone like, let's say, Tiago, our friend MCT,
Tiago Costa, and some of you constantly talk on, that might not be enough,
but for me it's almost enough.
You can pay a little bit. It's just a few euros. Thank you.
But it is free. And the whisper system, for example, is also free.
Completely free. I want to show you one last thing.
This is what Camtasia looks like. And if Ralph and the colleagues allow,
I put the demo files, unprocessed everything, I put it into a cloud storage
and I will link it so you can try that on your own.
And I will also take a note which microphone did I use which audio interface
because I changed it multiple times to make a good demo this is,
unprocessed audio from this room no auphonic and listen to it ".. has so many settings
it's not possible at all to configure a control a setting through you write
a script you will sit down in the night and write scripts and then test and deploy.
So thankfully, Apple has a project which is called Mac OS Security Compliance Project.
It is a project which is available on GitHub. It's an open source project.
And it has been developed by Apple itself, along with many high security agencies
like NASA, CIA, and the US Defense Organization.
They have... " So much, thank you.
You see he got two microphones wired so that
is just the one I tested to that
is again the cheap one so I really like it and that was also one of the reason
so that I wanted you to test it and I still want you to test it because we got
one more almost a complete day if you want to try it today and do yourself a
favor thank you and simply try it so.
If you're rich, if you're a security expert and you do not know what to spend
with your money, I would highly recommend that you use a wireless transmitter and a little tripod.
And what you saw from the picture when we were down in the hall.
You can't always use a tripod just like this because there were plenty of people walking around.
You might have seen on the picture, I go back so that you remember. Do you see this?
I bought this to be totally independent.
So I just simply put it on the desk if I can.
And it's just about the audio recording. I don't care too much about the video.
I'm not that nice guy so that everybody needs to see me.
But I hope I got some content and this should be heard and my screen recording should be seen.
So you can get that on the
used market and I think they will not produce this anymore there will be new
versions you can buy other stuff but do yourself a favor and stay away from
Bluetooth. If you want to know more about Bluetooth and why you should not use
it, talk to me after the session.
Bluetooth is not meant to be for
that purpose so the Bluetooth stuff is almost rubbish. It is not meant for that.
You can have a telephone call, but don't use a wireless transmitter just like this.
There are competing products that is not an issue.
So I paid 300 euros or something like that, but you can easily get it on the
used market because due to corona, many, many people bought it,
but they're not satisfied.
Because they have not yet bought an audio interface. You know what I mean?
The quality is poor if you attach it directly to the notebook.
And so you will find, I recently found a pair for 50 euros in Germany.
So you will, without any problems, you will find one for 100 euros. I highly recommend.
And you can borrow one from me if you deliver a session later today. I gladly record you.
So that is what I wanted to show you. and I'm really really looking forward
to talk to you and yeah discuss your your experience. Any questions?
"The most problem I have is that my storage is full on my phone or on my iPad."
Storage is full. Yes. Buy a bigger phone. Buy a bigger one. But what I use is
your portable hand recorder.
The Zoom Z1. What's your opinion about that? You can use that.
The reason why I use a smartphone is pretty easy to explain.
Because and you might
think that a proper camera for 2,000
euros is better no it is not because the problem with cameras is they are not
meant for recording video so they will overheat and that will not work for an
hour-long session so that is the reason why I why I use my smartphone because it is not a problem.
It will not overheat. And my main problem is not storage, it's battery life.
So you really need to take care that you have a full loaded phone.
And you can, of course, also use an audio recorder, but then you don't have the picture.
That is the reason why I use the smartphone. It's easier.
And you have it with you already.
But of course, you can You can also use this. There are also tiny audio recorders
that you can also use to be independent. Maybe you need your phone during the call.
Okay, any more questions?
So thank you, thanks a lot!
And grab one if you don't have one. Thanks to the sponsors.